Meditation is the centerpiece of American Buddhism.

Why do we meditate?  We meditate because it makes us happy.  Meditation is a way by
which we can touch the divine in life--touch Eternity--under almost any circumstances
and at any time.  Meditation is a way of making a choice to be happy--when we sit
down to meditate, we are choosing to be happy for that day.  It is a way of building
up our personal power.  It is neither overly optimistic nor over pessimistic--it gives
us the power we need to pragmatically deal with the world on a day-to-day basis.
Ultimately meditation is what will lead us to Enlightenment--but we will get to that
later.

Meditation, for us as American Buddhists, is a very practical tool for dealing with
the world.  At one time--and perhaps still in certain parts of the world--there were
lots of nuns and monks who would retreat into caves and spend years or decades
meditating in a singular attempt to attain Enlightenment.  Their path was a noble one
--but it is not our path.  We combine meditation with the daily demands of holding
a job, paying the bills, being a student, perhaps raising a family, and relating to
friends.  We are not that interested in a particular teacher's lineage--although we
always keep ourselves well informed--we are far more interested in whether a 
particular teacher's meditation techniques are useful and practical and help us to
deal with the world.  If we are meditating correctly, we should see ourselves
becoming more and more successful in all areas of our lives.  And most importantly
of all, we should see ourselves becoming happier and happier.

Meditation practiced regularly--usually twice a day--allows us to experience
ecstatic states of mind on a frequent basis.  It allows us to both be more successful
in the world and to detach ourselves somewhat from the world.  It is paradoxical
in a way--we can simultaneously become more successful and adept at dealing with the
world and less attached to the world.

We practice a form of meditation known as Kundalini or Chakra meditation.  